Shalom everyone! Welcome to Cinema
Summary, ladies and gentlemen and may
peace be with you because
for a little Jewish village in
Lithuania peace will be irreversibly
disturbed now just so you know this
video will be split into two sections a
summary and an explanation if you
haven't seen the movie yet keep on going
for the summary if you have and you had
some questions about a few things go to
this time code on screen now for the
answers and with that out of the way
this is THE GOLEM
in the year 1673 in an isolated agrarian village
of  Lithuanian Orthodox Jews
We follow Hannah who we first see
is given a vial of contraceptives by
Perla the villagers healer, now the thing
is Hannah's a woman unlike any other in
the village for a few reasons for one
she has no child of her own as her son
Joseph died seven years ago and she
hasn't gotten over that and secondly
she's sneaky, clever, and curious: hiding
beneath the floors of the wooden yeshiva
where the men studied the Talmud with
the rabbi and because of this she's a
very intelligent woman who was able to
answer questions that not even the men
can answer including her husband
Benjamin, however the thing is with this
knowledge and curiosity comes a thirst
for the Kabbalah: forbidden, mystical
knowledge which Hannah learns if
harnessed correctly can allow one to
create life though Benjamin warns her
that such knowledge can drive even men
insane
who knows what it would do to a woman?
the next day is the wedding day of
Rebecca, Hannah's sister, and it's a
beautiful ceremony that is interrupted
by the arrival of Gentiles from a nearby
village. They are led by Vladimir who has
brought his sick plague-ridden daughter
to the Jews who he believes caused his
people to get sick and after killing one
of them he forces them into a deal if
they heal his daughter his people will
leave him alone and won't kill them but
if anyone leaves the village before his
daughter is healed that person
will die, and with that said
he goes away taking Perla the with him to
heal his daughter. Later that day, the men
of the village plan for what is to be
done when Hannah comes and suggests that
they create a golem to protect the
village, an idea that the rabbi finds
preposterous and dangerous to do! So
Hanna takes matters into her own hands
after finding out her sister had a
miscarriage after getting punched at her
wedding, so she goes to the forest in the
middle of the night to create a golem
through a forbidden Kabbalic ritual
and the next morning she finds the
ritual site disturbed and is unsure if
the ritual failed but things become
strange as that night Hannah hears
something in the attic while Benjamin
sees his fiddle fall to the floor.
Upstairs, Hanna finds that a doll is
missing from a chest as well as a set of
wet footprints that walk away from the
chest and when Hanna comes downstairs
Benjamin has found something: a small
bottle of contraceptive that was hidden
underneath her bed. You see since their
son's death, Benjamin and Hannah have been
trying for a new boy and Benjamin has
just found out that Hanna has been
sabotaging their efforts to move on and
he angrily leaves Hannah alone as someone
watches them from inside the house the
following day, Hannah goes back to check
the ritual site but is ambushed by
Vladimir's men who lynch her but as
she's choking she watches them get
attacked by something and is cut down
from the tree to see her savior
It's the Golem!
she takes it back home keeping it in
the barm for the night while she reads
more about golems finding out two
particular details about them
number one: golems are meant to only
protect and safeguard for the greater
good of all and number two: golems can
evolve
so keep these two points of information
in mind as we go on throughout the film
as these points are crucial to the progression of the story
the motivations behind a specific character's actions
and the consequences therein, alright?
All right back to the movie
from here on the events of the
movie take place over a series of days
and things become dark for everyone
involved for one Hannah finds out that
the Golem not only feels her emotions
but that it will obey her will as we
find out it kills Hannah's neighbor after
Hanna gets jealous seeing her with
Benjamin. Secondly the Golem kills anyone
who seeks to destroy it as Benjamin
finds Perla's corpse hidden in a chest
after she tried to kill it and thirdly
after Vladimir's men are killed and he
is chased out of a village, Vladimir's
daughter dies and he takes revenge
against the village with his men who
kill, raid, and burn the Jewish village
and the villagers this ultimately leads
to Benjamin working with the rabbi and some
of the men in the village to destroy the
golem which goes terribly wrong
and ends in the golem going on a
murderous rampage killing any Jew or Gentile
with extreme prejudice before
its attack is ended by Hannah who having
realized the immense cost of her actions
and finally able to move past her son's
death, kills the golem by removing the
scroll from its mouth leaving her with
Benjamin as the few survivors of the
massacre and the movie ends with the
scroll the Hannah removed floating
gently to the feet of Abigail, the
daughter of Hannah's murdered neighbor
so you probably have questions about a
few things like why does Hannah's Golem
look like a human if it's been
established that golems look like giant
rock monsters and why does that same
golem go on a killing spree at the end
of the film killing both Gentiles and
Jews if it's supposed to protect them
for the greater good of all and finally
does Kabbalah truly drive people insane
well let's take a few steps back to
examine what's been established about
Kabbalah in the film which for those of
you who don't know is Jewish mysticism
which can be understood as the study of
the natural and the supernatural from a
Jewish perspective in context Benjamin
says that it can drive even men insane
while his father the village rabbi
remarks that only someone as legendary
as Moses could ever control such a
powerful thing
this along with a psychic bond that
Hannah has with the Golem I believe
answers your question you see the
Kabbalah is such a powerful force
that not even the great in Maharal
of Prague was able to successfully
control it as we see in the beginning of
the film. This inability to properly
control kabbalah leads to an otherwise
divine power being corrupted by human
desire and imperfection, Hannah is
established as having not gotten over
her son's death and she clearly uses the
golem child as a substitute for Joseph
and as an unhealthy coping mechanism to
deal with his death, in fact it's somewhat
implied that she was trying to find a
way to resurrect her son through the use
of the Kabbalah and in a way the ritual
she conducts does so although it takes
into account her desire for vengeance
against Vladimir in his men, her need to
protect her people, and of course her
son's resurrection or return so to speak
inadvertently creating a golem that's
unlike any before it: a golem that
assumes a human shape as for why it goes
on a murderous rampage at the end of the
film I think that's in part due to the
bond that the golem has with Hannah it's
established in the movie that the Golem
feels whatever Hannah feels and we see
it very physically react with the same
anger they Hannah feels when she sees
her neighbor with Benjamin and we
actually see the Golem
itself experience its own jealousy when
it sees the attention that Hanna gives
Benjamin and it stabs itself in the
thigh to hurt Hanna now from what I've
read about golems in folklore and in
legend they are essentially machines
they have no thoughts of their own and
they have no feelings of their own
however as established in the film
golems can evolve and they have a
primary directive to protect for the
greater good of all and the way that I
see ii is that through this psychic bond
the Golem molds itself to fulfill Hannah's
desire but also develops its own
emotions which corrupt its original
purpose of protection so with this
glitch in its system its prime directive
of protecting the Jews is overwritten.
The Golem adapting and evolving to have
a different directive something akin to
"protect Hannah", "obey Hannah", "become like a
child for Hannah" and "protect itself"
leading to its childish jealousy and what
you could describe as the worst temper
tantrum ever. This evolution of function
in turn upgrades its capabilities which
would explain why the Golem is able to
make people explode which is backed up
by the Golem of Prague having a similar
ability. Now for question three does the
Kabbalah make people go insane that is a
difficult question to answer as we only
have two case studies of people using
Kabbalah in the film: Hannah and the
Maharal of Prague who we only briefly
see and from what little we do see it
would be safe to assume that he was of
right mind without delusion and he
didn't seem to exhibit any of the
stereotypical symptoms of insanity
although from what I've read insanity is
more or less a legal term rather than a
psychological one so take that for what
it's worth now Hannah is a different
story
Hannah is introduced into the movie as
having been traumatized, unable to move
on from her son's death and growing
obsessed with finding an answer as to
why he died and how he could be brought
back this condition is a sign of
complicated grief and pre-existing
mental disturbances or disorders
although as the movie goes on Hannah
changes at first she's a bit
manipulative, lying to Benjamin about her
use of contraceptive
and then this leads to her getting
jealous and dangerously possessive of
Benjamin as she finds out that her
neighbor is flirting with her man which
then leads to her sadistic glee after
finding out that Golem murdered her
neighbor for her which although
incredibly disturbing
Does it mean that Hannah's crazy?
Yes, well sort, of it's complicated you
see it's never established what happens
when someone goes mad from Kabbalah so
it's safe to assume that Hanna's actions
and reactions
are a consequence of Kabballic Madness
especially her acceptance, love, and
affection for the golem child although
by the end of the film she gets over this
delusion that the golem child can serve as
a surrogate for Joseph, her dead son, and
learns to move on from there so it's a
little bit ambiguous as to whether or
not Kabbalic madness is a case-by-case
thing or if it's even real at all
although you take it to consideration
the fact that magic Kabbalah especially
in the film is real and that both diegetically, in the film, and nondiegetically, in real life,
traditional kabbalah requires
specific people to study it.
Requirements such as being of the age of 40 and being male for example.
it makes a lot of sense that the Kabbalic Madness is in fact a real thing
that the kebab madness is in fact a real
thing but it only affects specific people
but what do you guys think do you
think Hannah's golem assumed a more human
form due to their bond? Do you think
Kabbalah drives people insane let me
know, whether you agree or disagree with
me, with a comment down below and with that
being said thank you so much for
watching ladies and gentlemen if you
enjoyed it leave a like down below and
subscribe to get updated automatically
and until next time. Shalom